---
layout: post
title: "My Master's Thesis"
# categories: paper
---

# Thesis Title: Research on Identification of Inverted Pendulum System based on Deep Reinforcement Learning

## Abstract
This paper takes the inverted pendulum system as the research object, innovatively uses the interactive framework of deep reinforcement learning to automatically select the features of the inverted pendulum online, and carries out structural identification of some parameters. The main work and innovations are as follows:

First, the paper designs an online feature selection method based on attention mechanism and deep reinforcement learning, ADRL (Attention based Deep Reinforcement Learning). Use the end-to-end general learning model of deep reinforcement learning to construct a dynamic interaction framework between the controller and the inverted pendulum system. The attention mechanism is introduced to calculate the weight value of different state variables to generate the importance of each feature. Aiming at the characteristics of the late return feedback of deep reinforcement learning, a global feature contribution evaluation standard based on the maximum cumulative return is designed. ADRL solves the problem of lack of versatility of state variables selected by experts in the existing inverted pendulum system identification research.

Secondly, in order to avoid the excessive intrusion of the screening process into the existing DRL structure and the problem that the real information of the system cannot be effectively used, a virtual and real dual system feedback architecture is designed. Based on the model differences between the dual systems, DRL performs online feature selection through the interaction between the controller and the inverted pendulum system, innovatively achieving simultaneous identification and control, and dynamic identification of the real-time changes in features caused by the control.

Finally, the paper introduces the Lagrangian and Hamiltonian dynamics structure into the deep neural network, and builds a deep gray box architecture integrating important dynamic parameters and deep network structure. Using the state-action process data generated by the dynamic interaction between the inverted pendulum system and the controller, the loss function under the change of the control amount is designed to solve some parameters, which solves the problem that the existing Hamiltonian structured identification research cannot carry out the parameters under continuous excitation.

The paper takes two classic deep reinforcement learning algorithms, DQN and DDPG, as examples, designs ADRL and dynamic structural parameter identification models, and validates different inverted pendulum systems on the OpenAI Gym platform. The results show the effectiveness and versatility of the proposed model in automatic online selection of state variables and identification of some parameters.


**Keywords:** Inverted Pendulum System; Deep Reinforcement Learning; Attention Mechanism; Online Feature Selection; Dynamic Structure; Parameter Identification
